Now that we've talked about
how to visualize the hook
methods for the
SearchWithParallelStreams case
study example, let's
go ahead and take
a look at how to implement
these hook methods.
And again, just to
remind you, the reason
for doing what we're
doing here-- the reason
for using parallel streams--
is to get this massive speed-up
in performance, which, if
you take a look at this,
is basically about
linear or super linear
in the number of
cores on the laptop I
ran the experiments on.
The reason why the results
are actually super linear--
in other words,
better than linear--
is because even though
I have fours cores,
they're hyperthreaded,
which means
they're able to do some
overlapping of instructions
and pipelining in order to get
the performance even higher
than just a factor of n.
It's really not quite double
n, but it's more than n--
where n is the number of cores.
So this really does
give you a big win,
and we'll talk more
about the reasons
why that is a little bit later.
So let's talk about how we might
implement the processStream
method.
Now, the key thing to note
before we talk about anything
here is there's only
one minuscule change
to processStream in
this implementation.
All we're doing is
replacing the use of stream
with parallelStream.
And what that does
under the hood
is that goes ahead and uses
the array list spliterator
rater to create a
parallel stream that
will search the array
list of input strings
in multiple worker threads.
So basically, each-- as the way
that the array list spliterator
works.
As we'll look at
shortly, I'll actually
walk through the source code
for the array list spliterator
to show you exactly
how it works.
But basically, what
it ends up doing is
it ends up splitting
the array list up
into chunks, where each chunk
is a single element in the array
list.
And each of those
elements will then
be processed by a separate
worker thread or some worker
thread in the common
fork-joint pool.
So this is very efficient, very
fine-grain, and, as you'll see,
gives us this
wonderful speed-up.
Each input string that's
broken up using the spliterator
is processed in parallel using
the common fork-join pool.
And so we'll see
that, again, it's
very fine-grained
level of parallel.
So basically, each
work of Shakespeare
will have its own thread in
the pool that will get a chance
to run when it's time to run.
What then happens,
basically, like we
saw before, the map
intermediate operation gets
called, passing in the
processInput helper
method, which will then
turn around and search
that given input string to
locate all the phrases that we
care about in Hamlet or whatnot.
And then that will, of
course, come back with a list
or, rather, a stream of
lists of search results.
And then the collect terminal
operation gets called,
and it uses the
toList factory method
to return a non-concurrent
collector, which
obeys encounter order, and
will end up basically creating
a list of lists that merge
everything back together
and return that as the
result from processStream.
Pretty much the same as before.
Honestly, the only
real difference
here is the fact that
we changed stream
to parallelStream, just used
a different factory method.
And that's often-- not
always, but often--
the way things work
with parallelStream.
It's almost drop-dead easy to
go from a sequential stream
to a parallel
stream, which is one
of the virtues of this
functional programming
abstraction.
Let's take a quick
look at processInput.
As before, it also has
just one minuscule change.
It goes ahead and uses
parallelStream on the phrases
to find, which, once
again, uses the array list
spliterator to create a parallel
stream that will search a given
input string, a given
work of Shakespeare,
to locate all the
phrase occurrences.
I keep saying phase occurrences.
I've got to fix this.
Sorry about that.
As you can see here,
what we do when
we call the searchForPhrase
method in the context
of the lambda expression
passed into the map
intermediate
operation, we end up
passing the false parameter
as the fourth argument
to search for phrase.
And what that does is that
will use a sequential stream
to search for the phrase.
So it'll generate a
sequential stream of results.
When we come back later
in subsequent weeks
and talk about the
searchWithParallelSpliterator
example, you'll see how we'll
replace the false with true
here, which will cause
searchForPhrase to go ahead
and return a parallel stream.
So it'll do the searching
in even more fine degrees
of parallelization,
which is really cool.
Then, as you can see here, each
phrase in each input string
is processed in parallel in
the common fork-join pool.
And as before, we go
ahead and filter out
things that are
empty, we collect
the results back that triggers
the intermediate operation
processing, and then
merges all the results
into a single list of
search results, which
is what gets returned
as the result
of the processInput method.
So once again, just
to kind of recap this,
it's very much identical
to what we saw before,
with just those tiny,
minuscule changes
to go from stream
to parallel stream.